# Week 3 Reading Assigment
In the articles “New methods for acquiring, constructing and visualizing complex street networks” and “Off the Grid…and Back Again? The recent evolution of American street network Planning and Design”, author Geoff Beoing discusses the ongoing technological advances in mapping and analyzing street networks. In the first article, he discusses how existing programs lack the ability to adequately represent the street networks in terms of the quality and quantity of data as well as using simplifications that neglect key information.  In the second article, he discusses the phenomena of street networks across the US and how they have altered throughout the post-modern era.

In terms of the first article, it’s interesting how there are a variety of programs that allow planners to perform in-depth levels of analysis. Having worked in a local Planning Division, the reality is that planners are very limited in the resources that are available to them because of budget constraints. It’s also an extensive process to get approval for a new program because it has to go to City Council for review and then the time and funding needed for training. A majority of the time, cities will just hire a consultant to do these types of analysis. Thus, how do you go about convincing local agencies that this program/method is more efficient when it seems they have little to no interest? In regard to the second article, it takes on a different perspective of urban sprawl. Most studies focus on the low-density, auto-dependent neighborhoods that came as a result; this article focused on the physical changes to the streets and their design. From intersections to orientation and length, being able to track these changes and account for them in street networking analysis is beneficial. Having worked in the South Bay, which is predominantly characterized as the stereotypical suburb, the streets are very long and winded. Simply looking at street looked longed to walk. Similar to my first question, it seems as though these suburban neighborhoods are satisfied with the status quo so how do you exactly go about trying to convince government officials that with this data, we can alter the existing street design of the region in a manner as to combat the effects of urban sprawl?
